The organization of memory into Page Frames each of which can store a single fixed size Page, is a standard method of presenting a view that the available "fast" memory is much larger than is actually the case. Typically fast RAM and cache storage may be less than 1% of the total physical storage available.

As has been described in the lectures, paged memory uses a physical division assigning numbers to page frames from 0 up to N −1 (with N dependent on the total amount of storage space provided) and a logical division of pages between running processes. At any given time page number k will be resident in some page frame and, in order to keep track of which page number is (currently) resident in a given page frame, the Memory Manager makes use of a Page Table. This being a mapping from page numbers to the frames in which they are held, so that if P T[k] = m this captures the fact that page number k is in page frame m.

In order to be read and written to, a page has to reside in a frame corresponding to one of those forming part of the RAM, and since this cannot hold every physical page, from time to time a page held in RAM may be swopped out (ie moved to the secondary disk store) in order to free a page frame for a page which has been referenced but (after checking the page table) has been found to reside in a frame outside main memory: an event referred to as a page fault. As was discussed in lectures, in order to alleviate this problem a decision has to be made regarding which of those pages currently held in RAM ought to be removed and, to facilitate this decision a number of page replacement policies have been proposed. In particular:

A. Longest Resident: use the page frame which is holding the page that has been held in memory for the longest time.
B. Least recently used (lru): use the the page frame holding the page which has not been accessed for the longest time.
C. Least frequently used (lfu): use the page frame holding the page which has been accessed the least number of times.
