For the first practical assignment you are asked to write a Java program to implement the following variation of the Dining Philosophers problem. Eight copyists are employed by a civil engineering company and spend their working days making di↵erent scale accurate reproductions of various technical drawings, e.g. scientific instrument specifications, machine part drawings, architectural blueprints, etc. After completing a task, the copyist checks it against the original, and having satisfied themselves that it is acceptable, then moves onto the next task. Since the firm is rather impoverished, it has only been able to provide for the purpose of carrying out these activities four eidographs1 and four pencils. As a result these must be shared between the eight. A copyist, however, cannot carry out any task unless she is able to use both simultaneously. It is assumed that the employment policy of the company discriminates against individuals who are not ambidextrous.
Each copyist has the following defining characteristics:
  1. An identifying index number – this being an integer value from {0, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7}.
  2. The eidograph that she has available (which is shared with a neighbour): for even indices this is on the left-hand side, while for        odd indices this on the right-hand side.
  3. The pencil that she has available (again shared with a neighbour): in a similar manner to the eidograph convention, it is assumed          that left-handed copyists are odd.
  4. A minimum and maximum time spent on copying individual drawings (measured in seconds)
  5. A minimum and maximum time spent on checking these (measured in seconds)
The actual time spent on copying and checking may be chosen as a random (integer) value between the minimum and maximum number of seconds specified. Note that this could vary between successive rounds.
